Relationships between tectonic environments and deposits of gold in Western U.S.A displayed through Random Forest and SVM

Welcome,
This repository includes the work that was used to create the paper titled above. The python notebook files have been altered from the original files obtained through (Butterworth et.al. 2019). 
Through utilising codes such as coregloop, we learned to coregister data files and create pickle files which combined data of deposits with tectonic settings across the globe.
The pickle files were then used in another python file to run machine learning processes. This is where we trained and tested the data to create accurate charts, figures and tables
that help us derive information. The python packages we utilised for our coding are (Gplates, pickle, scikit-learn, scipy, matplotlib, numpy, jupyter, cartopy, pandas, notebook and more). 

Abstract:

Gold deposits that occur along the western coast of U.S.A are unique in their depositional setting due to the variance in tectonic activities that have occurred over time. The importance of subduction zones in deposits is simple. As converging plates collide along their boundaries in a subduction zone, energy gets released along them to produce magmatism and create volcanoes and earthquakes. These create the ideal environment for minerals to precipitate and concentrate, resulting in large formations of porphyry deposits. For our topic, we analyse the western side of North America to determine the relationship between tectonic processes and gold deposits. By using data of known gold deposits from the data repository EarthChem, we utilise the programming language Python to gain geospatial and temporal information such as mineral abundance in relation to the age of deposits and location of ore formation. Further, by applying machine learning techniques such as random forest (RF) and support vector machine (SVM) we compare information on a set of variables to gain optimised data on the types of tectonic processes that occur and how they impact on our deposits. With the machine learning models we can create visual spatial data for subduction-related episodes such as convergence rates of the plates. This ultimately assists us in deriving and understanding the causal relationship between certain parameters and our deposit data. 
